News on Txt2tags v2.2

Dec 2004

%!includeconf: inc/config.t2t
%!options(html): --toc

%!include: inc/menu.t2t

A quick guide showing the new features for this version.
For a complete list of all the changes, see the
[ChangeLog SITEROOT/changelog.html].

--------------------------------------------------------

%%toc

--------------------------------------------------------

= New target: Lout =[lout]

About Lout:

	Lout is a document format that is similar to LaTeX. The text
	is tagged using "@tag{}" instead "\tag{}" and can generate
	formulas, figures, graphics, tables and more. Its power is
	compared to LaTeX and it is more compact and simple to use.
	But Lout is not so known and don't have a huge user base.
	Please go to the Lout site for more information:
	http://snark.ptc.spbu.ru/~uwe/lout/

The ``lout`` command (available for UNIX and Linux) convert the .lout
files to Postscript (.ps), PDF and clear text. Now with txt2tags
generating Lout files, you just have to use the lout command to create
professional documents, with paging and index.

	Note: The table support is not done yet.

= New option --css-inside =[css-inside]

With the ``-style`` option you can use external CSS files in your HTML
and XHTML documents to improve their appearance. Using together the
new ``--css-inside`` option all the CSS file contents is embedded into
the (X)HTML document headers. This way all the contents and formatting
are saved on the same file, so you don't have to provide the separate
CSS file.

This feature is useful when you need to use CSS formatting in a single
(X)HTML file, so you can distribute just one file (HTML) and not two
(HTML+CSS).

= New environment variable T2TCONFIG =[t2tconfig]

The program now searches for the RC configuration file location on the
``T2TCONFIG`` environment variable.

If it exists, the configurations are read from the file path it is
informing. If not, the default places are tried: ``~/.txt2tagsrc`` on
Linux and ``%homepath%\_t2trc`` on Windows.

= Program Translated to New Languages =[i18n]

Besides the current languages, now the program interface and messages
are also translated to:

- Spanish (es)
- German (de)
- French (fr)
-

**Add your language!** Get [this potfile {URLPOTFILE}] and
translate the messages. More info on the [i18n README file {URLPO}/README].

= Other =[other]

- The strong bar mark (``==========``) now is used as a manual page
  break in targets that are paged: LaTeX and Lout.

- The LaTeX headers has changed. Now the tex->PDF conversion produces
  improved documents with "clickable" blue links.

- The accented chars problem on XHTML target was fixed. Just be sure
  you inform the correct encoding for the document. Example:
  ``%!encoding: iso-8859-1``.

- Changes were made on the program structure to make it easier to be
  used as a Python module. Now errors can be captured as exceptions,
  and methods are more accessible. See the sample scripts on the
  ``samples/module/`` dir.

- The ``--debug`` option output was revamped, making it easier to
  understand.


[Download the new version! SITEROOT/download.html]

%!include: inc/footer.t2t
