Txt2tags Markup Rules


%!includeconf: rules.conf

This document describes all the details about each txt2tags mark.
The target audience are **experienced** users. You may find it
useful if you want to master the marks or solve a specific problem
about a mark.

If you are new to txt2tags or just want to know which are the
available marks, please read the [Markup Demo MARKUPDEMO].

Note 1: This document is generated directly from the txt2tags
test-suite. All the rules mentioned here are 100% in sync with the
current program code.

Note 2: A good practice is to consult [the sources rules.t2t] when
reading, to see how the texts were made.

Table of Contents:

%%TOC

-------------------------------------------------------------

= Paragraph =[paragraph]

%!include: TESTPATH/paragraph.t2t

= Comment =[comment]

%!include: TESTPATH/comment.t2t

= Line =[line]

%!include: TESTPATH/line.t2t

= Inline =[inline]

%!include: TESTPATH/inline.t2t

= Link =[link]

%!include: TESTPATH/link.t2t

= Image =[image]

%!include: TESTPATH/image.t2t

= Numbered Title =[numtitle]

See [Title #title], the same rules apply.

= Title =[title]

%!include: TESTPATH/title.t2t

= Quote =[quote]

%!include: TESTPATH/quote.t2t

= Raw =[raw]

See [Verbatim #verbatim], the same rules apply.

= Tagged =[tagged]

See [Verbatim #verbatim], the same rules apply.

= Verbatim =[verbatim]

%!include: TESTPATH/verbatim.t2t
```
% Needed to close the last test (verbatim opened at EOF)

= Definition List =[deflist]

See [List #list], the same rules apply.

= Numbered List =[numlist]

See [List #list], the same rules apply.

= List =[list]

%!include: TESTPATH/list.t2t


= Table =[table]

%!include: TESTPATH/table.t2t

------------------------------------------------------------

The End.
