Txt2tags conversion to Python 3
Author: João Bernardo
Date: 2010-11-07

%!encoding: UTF-8
%!options: --toc --enum-title

= Problems encountered after running 2to3 script =

(The line numbers may differ)

----------------------------------------------
 == Indentation (related to 'Ascii Art'):==

Mixture of tabs with spaces in lines 3744 -> 3753 (FIXED)


----------------------------------------------
 == Comparing strings and numbers ==

The test:

``` if t >= 0

But ``t`` was initially set to ``'z'`` as str > int for Python 2.

In Python 3, this comparison is not possible.

lines 3033, 3039, 3046

**Solution:**

'z' replaced by 1000000 in line 3024:
``` t = r = v = 'z'


----------------------------------------------
 == SaveFile function (lines 2181 to 2192): ==

Encoding problem as described in http://code.google.com/p/txt2tags/issues/detail?id=57

But the solution proposed in the issue messes with accented chars. My solution was to open the file with ``'w'`` and not ``'wb'``.

**Solution:**

```
# Open file as text, not bin

f = open (file_path, 'w')
```

----------------------------------------------

== Decode unicode string (related to conversion to txt) ==

The encode checking is not needed anymore.

**Solution:**

Commented lines 3224 to 3226, indentation removed from 3227.


----------------------------------------------

== String multiplied by float ==

In line 2068, ``nspace`` is defined by a division by 2 and then multiplies the number of spaces.

Python 2 makes ``10 / 2 = 5``, but Python 3 makes ``10 / 2 = 5.0`` as the symbol for integer division is ``//``.

**Solution:**

``` nspace = int ((length - len_txt - 4) / 2)

-----------------------------------------------

In lines 2079 and 2083 (function aa_header is used when ``-t art`` with ``--slides``), multiplied by ``n``.

**Solution:**

``` int (n) # the two calls


----------------------------------------------

 == GUI! ==

2to3 script missed a 'Tkinter'.

In py3K the module was renamed to tkinter.

Fixed line 5552.


----------------------------------------------

 == Page Maker (PM6) ==

The character ``\x95`` (bullet) can not be printed in unicode and generates exception to save the file.

In lines 1354 and 1356 this character is used.

**Workaround:**

``\x95\t`` replaced to ``*\t``

I don't know PageMaker format, please check this fix.


----------------------------------------------

 == Some idioms were fixed: ==

 === Type Comparison: isinstance ===

The isinstance function checks if an objects is from a class that inherits from the other
 
``` if type(a) == type(b):

is now:

``` if isinstance(a, type(b)):

some times appeared:

``` if (type(a) == type('')) or (type(a) == type(u'')):

This is deprecated, therefore only unicode string check is made.

``` if isinstance(a, type('')):


**Type comparison should be avoided for performance and compatibility reasons.**

Use that instead (when possible):

```
try:
    treat_as_iter_type(my_var)
except:
    treat_as_non_iter(my_var)
```


-----------------------------------------------
 === Sorting lists ===

In some places, is made:


```
my_list = 'some random words here'.split()
my_list.sort()
```

To avoid these two operations (because ``[].sort`` doesn't return a list and that would be wasteful), now is used the new ``sorted()`` function

``` my_list = sorted( 'some random words here'.split() )


and that produces the same result

-----------------------------------------------
 === Better use of iterators: ===

Functions like ``range()``, ``map()``, ``'{}.keys()'`` and many others now return iterators.

2to3 script never knows (ok, it knows only when you use ``for i in range(n)``) when it can use an iterator and 
changes everything to ``list(function())``.

The new model, when used right, reduces memory use so I refixed many ``list(function())`` made by the script

Fixed lines: 197, 1427, 1980, 2147, 2193, 2290, 2409, 2650, 2694, 2706, 2707, 2769, 2818, 4221, 4367, 4417, 4942, 5402

More lines fixed: 1416, 2417, 2793, 4214

===============================================

 = Already been tested: =

- All conversions
- Print to screen - STDOUT
- Read standard input - STDIN
- Enumerate titles
- Table of contents, toc-levels and toc-only
- Remove Header and Footer
- Mask email
- Slides in Ascii Art
- Width and Height in Ascii Art
- Quiet, verbose, help (duh!)
- GUI
- ``%!csv``
- ``%!postproc`` , ``%!preproc``, ``%!options``...


===============================================

= Tests Lacking =

- Style, CSS
- Configuration Files

