txt2tags-php online sample file


%!style: sample.css

%!preproc: '== (\d+) =='  '== \1 ==[\1]'   
%!preproc: '(\d+)$'  '**[\1 #\1]**'


== 0 ==

- Start the tour: 1
- Try a more [normal sample document txt2tags.sample.php?id=readme].


== 1 ==

Here is a simple //txt2tags// file (see the [source file1.t2t]. It shows off the possibilities of the //php implementation of txt2tags//.

We added some [CYOA-like http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choose_Your_Own_Adventure] links in this sample.

- You can visit them by clicking on the number, like this: 3
- Or you can visit an other link: 5


== 2 ==

There is nothing here.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut tristique, mauris et malesuada pretium, lectus nisl pretium urna, et aliquet sem dolor id neque. Duis nec augue et nisl congue posuere. Quisque molestie eros sit amet nisl hendrerit a porta odio venenatis. Nullam pellentesque ullamcorper mauris, vel iaculis ligula laoreet a. Donec eu rhoncus elit. Morbi et lorem purus, ac sagittis metus. Aenean eleifend auctor dui eu sollicitudin. Cras viverra euismod velit at consectetur. In bibendum iaculis aliquet. Proin bibendum, ligula ac imperdiet placerat, odio turpis mattis purus, id dignissim turpis quam in tellus. Vivamus sed massa eu urna lacinia dapibus.


== 3 ==

Wanna read some Lorem ipsum?

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut tristique, mauris et malesuada pretium, lectus nisl pretium urna, et aliquet sem dolor id neque. Duis nec augue et nisl congue posuere. Quisque molestie eros sit amet nisl hendrerit a porta odio venenatis. Nullam pellentesque ullamcorper mauris, vel iaculis ligula laoreet a. Donec eu rhoncus elit. Morbi et lorem purus, ac sagittis metus. Aenean eleifend auctor dui eu sollicitudin. Cras viverra euismod velit at consectetur. In bibendum iaculis aliquet. Proin bibendum, ligula ac imperdiet placerat, odio turpis mattis purus, id dignissim turpis quam in tellus. Vivamus sed massa eu urna lacinia dapibus.

- Go back to 1
- Visit a dead end: 2
- Visit another link: 5

== 4 ==

Nothing here either!
It might be upgraded later.


== 5 ==

Here is the last paragraph. We'll present you some of the txt2tags possibilities: We use double *, /, - and _ to represent **bold**, //italic//, --strike-- and __underline__. The **//bold italic//** style is also supported as a combination.

- Go back to 1


Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut tristique, mauris et malesuada pretium, lectus nisl pretium urna, et aliquet sem dolor id neque. Duis nec augue et nisl congue posuere. Quisque molestie eros sit amet nisl hendrerit a porta odio venenatis. Nullam pellentesque ullamcorper mauris, vel iaculis ligula laoreet a. Donec eu rhoncus elit. Morbi et lorem purus, ac sagittis metus. Aenean eleifend auctor dui eu sollicitudin. Cras viverra euismod velit at consectetur. In bibendum iaculis aliquet. Proin bibendum, ligula ac imperdiet placerat, odio turpis mattis purus, id dignissim turpis quam in tellus. Vivamus sed massa eu urna lacinia dapibus.







