txt2tags

Less is More

%!includeconf: inc/config.t2t
%!postproc: '(?i)(<body)'	'\1 id="features"'
%!postproc: '(?i)(</title>)'	' features\1'

% A nice shortcut
%!preproc: URLWIKIPEDIA		http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki

% Mark people names for CSS formatting
%!preproc: '^(-- .*)'		''<br><span class="name">\1</span>''

%!include: inc/menu.t2t
%!include: inc/testimonials.t2t

== Features ==

=== Many supported formats ===
+ [ASCII Art text                 URLWIKIPEDIA/ASCII_art]
+ [AsciiDoc document              URLWIKIPEDIA/AsciiDoc]
+ [Creole 1.0 document            URLWIKIPEDIA/""Creole_(markup)""]
+ [DocBook document               URLWIKIPEDIA/DocBook]
+ [DokuWiki page                  URLWIKIPEDIA/Dokuwiki]
+ [Google Code Wiki page          URLWIKIPEDIA/Google_code]
+ [HTML document                  URLWIKIPEDIA/HTML]
+ [LaTeX document                 URLWIKIPEDIA/LaTeX]
+ [Lout document                  URLWIKIPEDIA/Lout]
+ [MagicPoint presentation (mgp)  URLWIKIPEDIA/MagicPoint]
+ [MoinMoin page                  URLWIKIPEDIA/MoinMoin]
+ [PageMaker document             URLWIKIPEDIA/Pagemaker]
+ [Plain text                     URLWIKIPEDIA/Plain_text]
+ [PmWiki page                    URLWIKIPEDIA/PmWiki]
+ [SGML document                  URLWIKIPEDIA/SGML]
+ [UNIX manual page (manpage)     URLWIKIPEDIA/Man_page]
+ [Wikipedia page (MediaWiki)     URLWIKIPEDIA/MediaWiki]
+ [XHTML document                 URLWIKIPEDIA/XHTML]


...and even more in [SVN {URLT2TGCODE}]!

=== Simple ===
- **KISS:** The program follows the sacred [KISS Principle URLWIKIPEDIA/KISS_Principle].
- **Ready To Use:** No configuration, no compiling. Just download and run.
- **Save Your Hair:** No more library, catalog, schema and DTD nightmares.
- **Straight Edge:** Aimed for documents and websites, not books.
- **Sanity:** No flow control, system() or other programming capabilities.
- **Beauty:** Being simple is feature, not a bug.


=== Techie ===
- **Clean Results:** The generated code is clean, [readable %%infile], and [valid {URLHTMLVALIDATOR}].
- **Multi-platform:** Runs on Linux, Mac, Windows and many others.
- **User Interfaces:** Command line (--options), GUI (Tk) and Web (PHP).
- **Any Text editor:** Use the editor you like most.
- **Spellcheck Friendly:** Marks are symbols, the spell checker will ignore them.
- **Light Resources:** It does not index, compile, compress, draw or do any strong processing.
- **License:** GPL.


=== More than just code ===
- **Complete Documentation:** Guides, samples, reference. Translated to many languages.
- **Extras:** Syntax files for text editors, Wiki plugins, auto-update tools.
% - **Support:** Mailing list with friendly users and the program author.
- **Team work:** The user community [contributes team/] actively to the project.
- **User base:** The txt2tags [user base children.html] is large and world-wide.
- **Experience:** Born in 2001, today txt2tags is very stable and mature.


=== Minimalist markup ===
- **Less Typing:** Marks are symbols like ``+``, ``:`` and ``=``.
- **Natural Marks:** You already use some of them in e-mails.
- **Uncomplicated:** No keywords, no parameters, no attributes.
- **Readable:** The source file remains readable, unpolluted.
- **Consistent:** Simple and consistent rules, no "special cases".
- **Strong:** Marks are unique enough to don't confuse with contents.
- **Rich:** We have marks for tables, images, lists, comments and more.
- **Easy:** Learn fast, [learn now markup.html].


=== Diet Python ===
- **One-file Program:** Just a single [Python http://python.org] script, no extra files.
- **Standard Library:** Works on default Python install, no extra modules are required.
% - **Careful Coding:** Backwards compatible, runs even on ancient Python version 1.5.
- **Very Fast:** Even real big documents take a blink of an eye to convert.


=== Simple but not limited ===
- **TOC Generation:** Automatic Table of Contents.
- **Automatic Numbering:** Never number lists/topics/headings by hand anymore.
- **Include:** You can include external files as marked or tagged text.
- **Filters:** Use regular expressions for Pre and Post processing filters.
- **Scripting Friendly:** It can read from STDIN and write to STDOUT.
- **Configuration:** Optional config file can store preferences and filters.


Txt2tags, the last markup you will ever learn. Hope so :)

[Play with Txt2tags Online now! {URLONLINE}]

%!include: inc/footer.t2t
