News on Txt2tags v2.1

Nov 2004

%!includeconf: inc/config.t2t
%!options(html): --toc

%!include: inc/menu.t2t

A quick guide showing the new features for this version.
For a complete list of all the changes, see the
[ChangeLog SITEROOT/changelog.html].

--------------------------------------------------------

Contents of this document (using %%toc):

%%toc

--------------------------------------------------------

= New %%toc macro =[toc]

The %%toc macro specifies where the TOC of the document will be
placed. So you can place it wherever needed inside the document.

NOTE: %%toc will be expanded only when given the --toc option

Rules:
- Valid at the document BODY
- Starts body if it is found on the CONF area
- Must be alone on the line (leading and trailing spaces are allowed)
- Must be used together with --toc, if not, it is ignored
- Multi %%toc macros, on different parts of the document are allowed
- The default automatic TOC positioning/formatting is disabled when a
  %%toc is found


= New %%infile and %%outfile macros =[inoutfile]

The ""%%infile"" and ""%%outfile"" macros are used to get information
about the source and converted file. Useful for footer link like
"``[See source %%infile]``" and self mentioning like
"``This is the %%outfile file``". So you can change the filename and
the references to it will be updated.

Examples:
- This is the **%%outfile** page, which originally resides on the
  **%%outfile(%d)** dir.
- The source of this page is the **%%infile** file.


Rules:
- Valid at the document HEADER and BODY
- Starts body if it is found on the CONF area
- Can be at any part of the line, various per line
- Can be used inside links and images marks
- Are expanded to '-' if the file is STDIN or STDOUT
- They accept some % formatters, on the ""%%infile(formatter)"" form
-
Formatters:
 || %<char> | Description | Output for /tmp/txt2tags/mydoc.t2t |
 |    %f    | The file name                     | mydoc.t2t
 |    %F    | The file name (without extension) | mydoc
 |    %e    | The file extension                | t2t
 |    %p    | The absolute file path            | /tmp/txt2tags/mydoc.t2t
 |    %d    | The file path (directories only)  | /tmp/txt2tags
 |    %D    | The file path (parent dir only)   | txt2tags
 |    %%    | The literal percent char          | %


= New %%mtime macro =[mtime]

The ""%%mtime"" macro gets information about the source file
modification time. It uses the same formatters accepted by the
""%%date"" macro.

Example:
- The last change on the source of this page was made in
  **%%mtime(%c)**.


Rules:
- Valid at the document HEADER and BODY
- Starts body if it is found on the CONF area
- Can be at any part of the line, various per line
- Can be used inside links and images marks
- Accept some % formatters, on the ""%%mtime(formatter)"" form


= Now an empty item closes the current list =[emptyitem]

The two blank lines are currently used to close all the open lists.
Now there is a lighter alternative, which closes only the currently
opened list or sublist. Just leave an empty list item.

Rules:
- The empty list item must have the same type and indentation of the
  previous list items
- You can close just the current opened list, not its parents
- Useful mainly for closing sublists without closing the mother list
- This list is closed this way, for a sample ([see source %%infile]).
-
% list closed

= New options -q and --quiet =[quiet]

They are used for quiet operation, where txt2tags shows no messages on
the STDOUT. Can be disabled with the --no-quiet option.

= Option --toc-only now respecting --outfile =[toconly]

Historically, the --toc-only option always dumped the TOC to the
STDOUT. Now, if --outfile was also specified, the TOC is saved to that
file. If no --outfile was specified, or if "-o -" was given, the TOC
is sent to the STDOUT.

= Program Translated to New Languages =

Besides English and Portuguese, now the program interface and messages
are also translated to:

- [Italian SITEROOT/img/gui-it_IT.png] (it_IT)

- [Hungarian SITEROOT/img/gui-hu.png] (hu)
-

**Add your language!** Get [this potfile {URLPOTFILE}] and
translate the messages. More info on the [i18n README file {URLPO}/README].

= Documentation News =

- New [Markup Demo {DOCMARKUP}] document showing all the txt2tags
  marks and their resulting HTML pair. Beautiful! This document and
  the new User Guide "Mastering Marks" section have obsoleted the
  old RULES file.

- New [Writing Books with Txt2tags {DOCBOOK}] document
  showing tips on using txt2tags on the book writing process.

- [User Guide {DOCUSERGUIDE}] now is a PDF file on the tarball and was revamped with
  new chapters:
  - Writing and Converting Your First Document
   (a step-by-step very recommended for beginners)
  - Mastering Txt2tags Concepts
  - Mastering Marks
  - Mastering Macros

- New portuguese docs: FAQ and Reference Card.

- New spanish docs: translated sample and abuseme files.


= Other =

- Misspelled option --css-suggar now changed to --css-sugar. Now both
  forms are accepted. Please, do not use --css-suGGar anymore.

- Now the hyphen char "-" can be used in title anchors.


--------------------------------------------------------------

What about the TOC repeated at the end? Strange, but now you can:

%%toc

--------------------------------------------------------------
Powered by txt2tags ([see source %%infile])

%!include: inc/footer.t2t
