
%!includeconf: test.conf
BODYINIT

%%% Syntax: E-mail
user@domain.com
user@domain.com.
user@domain.com. any text.
any text: user@domain.com. any text.
[label user@domain.com]
%%% Syntax: E-mail with form data
user@domain.com?subject=bla
user@domain.com?subject=bla.
user@domain.com?subject=bla,
user@domain.com?subject=bla&cc=otheruser@domain.com
user@domain.com?subject=bla&cc=otheruser@domain.com.
user@domain.com?subject=bla&cc=otheruser@domain.com,
[label user@domain.com?subject=bla&cc=otheruser@domain.com].
[label user@domain.com?subject=bla&cc=otheruser@domain.com.].
%%% Syntax: URL
http://www.domain.com
http://www.domain.com/dir/
http://www.domain.com/dir///
http://www.domain.com.
http://www.domain.com,
http://www.domain.com. any text.
http://www.domain.com, any text.
http://www.domain.com/dir/. any text.
any text: http://www.domain.com. any text.
any text: http://www.domain.com/dir/. any text.
any text: http://www.domain.com/dir/index.html. any text.
any text: http://www.domain.com/dir/index.html, any text.
%%% Syntax: URL with anchor
http://www.domain.com/dir/#anchor
http://www.domain.com/dir/index.html#anchor
http://www.domain.com/dir/index.html#anchor.
http://www.domain.com/dir/#anchor. any text.
http://www.domain.com/dir/index.html#anchor. any text.
any text: http://www.domain.com/dir/#anchor. any text.
any text: http://www.domain.com/dir/index.html#anchor. any text.
%%% Syntax: URL with form data
http://domain.com?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c.
http://domain.com?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c,
http://domain.com/bla.cgi?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c.
http://domain.com/bla.cgi?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c@.
%%% Syntax: URL with form data and anchor
http://domain.com?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c.#anchor
http://domain.com/bla.cgi?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c.#anchor
http://domain.com/bla.cgi?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c@.#anchor
%%% Syntax: URL with login data
http://user:password@domain.com/bla.html.
http://user:password@domain.com/dir/.
http://user:password@domain.com.
http://user:@domain.com.
http://user@domain.com.
%%% Syntax: URL with login, form and anchor
http://user:password@domain.com/bla.cgi?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c.#anchor
http://user:password@domain.com/bla.cgi?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c@#anchor
%%% Syntax: URL with label
[label www.domain.com]
%%% Syntax: URL with label (trailing spaces are discarded, leading are maintained)
%TODO normalize this behavior
[  label www.domain.com]
[label   www.domain.com]
%%% Syntax: URL with label, stressing
[anchor        http://www.domain.com/dir/index.html#anchor.]
[login         http://user:password@domain.com/bla.html]
[form          http://www.domain.com/bla.cgi?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c.]
[form & anchor http://www.domain.com/bla.cgi?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c.#anchor]
[login & form  http://user:password@domain.com/bla.cgi?a=a@a.a&b=a+b+c.]
%%% Syntax: Link with label for local files
[local link up          ..]
[local link file        bla.html]
[local link anchor      #anchor]
[local link file/anchor bla.html#anchor]
[local link file/anchor bla.html#anchor.]
[local link img         abc.gif]
%%% Syntax: Another link as a label
[www.fake.com www.domain.com]
%%% Syntax: URL with funny chars
http://domain.com:8080/~user/_st-r@a=n$g,e/index%20new.htm
http://domain.com:8080/~user/_st-r@a=n$g,e/index%20new.htm?a=/%22&b=+.@*_-
http://domain.com:8080/~user/_st-r@a=n$g,e/index%20new.htm?a=/%22&b=+.@*_-#anchor_-1%.
http://foo._user-9:pass!#$%&*()+word@domain.com:8080/~user/_st-r@a=n$g,e/index%20new.htm?a=/%22&b=+.@*_-#anchor_-1%.
%%% Test: Various per line
http://L1.com ! L2@www.com ! [L3 www.com] ! [L4 w@ww.com] ! www.L5.com
%%% Feature: Guessed link, adding protocol automatically
www.domain.com
www2.domain.com
ftp.domain.com
WWW.DOMAIN.COM
FTP.DOMAIN.COM
[label www.domain.com]
[label ftp.domain.com]
[label WWW.DOMAIN.COM]
[label FTP.DOMAIN.COM]
%%% Invalid: Trailing space on link
[label www.domain.com ]
%%% Invalid: Label with ] char (use postproc)
[label] www.domain.com]
