
%!includeconf: test.conf
BODYINIT

%%% Items: Prefixed by hyphen
- Use the hyphen to prefix list items.
- There must be one space after the hyphen.
- The list is closed by two consecutive blank lines.


%%% Items: Free leading spacing (indentation)
     - The list can be indented on the source document.
     - You can use any number of spaces.
     - The result will be the same.


%%% Items: Vertical spacing between items
- Let one blank line between the list items.

- It will be maintained on the conversion.

- Some targets don't support this behavior.
	   	  
- This one was separated by a line with blanks.
  You can also put a blank line inside

  the item contents and it will be preserved.


%%% Items: Exactly ONE space after the hyphen
-This is not a list (no space)

-    This is not a list (more than one space)

-	This is not a list (a TAB instead the space)


%%% Items: Catchy cases
- - This is a list
- + This is a list
- : This is a list


%%% Nesting: Creating sublists
- This is the "mother" list first item.
- Here is the second, but inside this item,
  - there is a sublist, with its own items.
  - Note that the items of the same sublist
  - must have the same indentation.
    - And this can go on, opening sublists.
      - Just add leading spaces before the
      - hyphen and sublists will be opened.
      - The two blank lines closes them all.


%%% Nesting: Free leading spacing (indentation)
- When nesting lists, the additional spaces are free.
 - You can add just one,
        - or many.
          - What matters is to put more than the previous.
          - But remember that the other items of the same list
          - must use the same indentation.


%%% Nesting: Maximum depth
- There is not a depth limit,
  - you can go deeper and deeper.
    - But some targets may have restrictions.
      - The LaTeX maximum is here, 4 levels.
        - This one and the following sublists
          - are moved up to the level 4
            - when converting to LaTeX.
              - On the other targets,
                - it is just fine
                  - to have a very deep list.


%%% Nesting: Reverse doesn't work
        - Reverse nesting doesn't work.
      - Because a sublist *must* have a mother list.
    - It's the list concept, not a txt2tags limitation.
  - All this sublists will be bumped to mother lists.
- At level 1, like this one.


%%% Nesting: Going deeper and back

%% When nesting back to an upper level, the previous sublist
%% is automatically closed.
- Level 1
  - Level 2
    - Level 3
      - Level 4
    - Level 3 -- (closed Level 4)
  - Level 2 -- (closed Level 3)
- Level 1 -- (closed Level 2)


%% More than one list can be closed when nesting back.
- Level 1
  - Level 2
    - Level 3
      - Level 4
- Level 1 -- (closed Level 4, Level 3 and Level 2)


%%% Nesting: Vertical spacing between lists
- Level 1

  - Level 2 -- blank BEFORE and AFTER (in)

    - Level 3
% comment lines are NOT considered blank lines
      - Level 4
% comment lines are NOT considered blank lines
    - Level 3

  - Level 2 -- blank BEFORE and AFTER (out)

- Level 1
        
  - Level 2 -- blank BEFORE (spaces) and AFTER (TAB)
	
    - Level 3


%%% Nesting: Messing up
%% Be careful when going back on the nesting,
%% it must be on a valid level! If not, it will
%% be bumped up to the previous valid level.
- Level 1
    - Level 2
        - Level 3
            - Level 4
          - Level 3.5 ???
        - Level 3
      - Level 2.5 ???
    - Level 2
  - Level 1.5 ???
- Level 1


%%% Closing: Two (not so) empty lines
- This list is closed by a line with spaces and other with TABs
        
	
- This list is NOT closed by two comment lines
% comment lines are NOT considered blank lines
% comment lines are NOT considered blank lines
- This list is closed by a line with spaces and TAB,
- then a comment line, then an empty line.
	      	
% comment lines are NOT considered blank lines

%%% Closing: Empty item closes current (sub)list

%% The two blank lines closes ALL the lists.
%% To close just the current, use an empty item.
- Level 1
  - Level 2
    - Level 3
    -
    Level 2
  -  
  Level 1
-

%% The empty item can have trailing blanks.
- Empty item with trailing spaces.
-    

- Empty item with trailing TAB.
-	

%%% Closing: EOF closes the lists
- If the end of the file (EOF) is hit,
  - all the currently opened list are closed,
    - just like when using the two blank lines.
