
%!includeconf: test.conf
BODYINIT

%%% Syntax: TAB defines quote
	To quote a paragraph, just prefix it by a TAB
	character. All the lines of the paragraph must
	begin with a TAB.
Any non-tabbed line closes the quote block.

%%% Nesting: Creating deeper quotes
	The number of leading TABs identifies the quote
	block depth. This is quote level 1.
		With two TABs, we are on the quote
		level 2.
			The more TABs, more deep is
			the quote level.
				There isn't a limit.

%%% Nesting: Reverse nesting works
				This quote starts at
				level 4.
			Then its depth is decreased.
		Counting down, one by one.
	Until the level 1.

%%% Nesting: Random count
			Unlike lists, any quote block is
			independent, not part of a tree.
	The TAB count don't need to be incremental
	by one.
				The nesting don't need
				to follow any rule.
		Quotes can be opened and closed
		in any way.
					You choose.

%%% Nesting: When not supported
	Some targets (as sgml) don't support the
	nesting of quotes. There is only one quote
	level.
		In this case, no matter how much
		TABs are used to define the quote
		block, it always will be level 1.

%%% Syntax: Spaces after TAB
	  Spaces AFTER the TAB character are allowed.
	  But be careful, it can be confusing.

%%% Invalid: Spaces before TAB
  	Spaces BEFORE the TAB character
  	invalidate the mark. It's not quote.

%%% Invalid: Paragraphs inside
	Paragraph breaks inside a quote aren't
	possible.
	
	This sample are two separated quoted
	paragraphs, not a quote block with
	two paragraphs inside.

%%% Closing: EOF closes the open block
	The end of the file (EOF) closes the
	currently open quote block.
